# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns
Excel project for analyzing kickstarter data
#Kickstarter Project

###Overview of Project and Purpose

This kickstarter project is designed to provide an up and coming playwright, Louise, the best practices for a successful crowdfunding campaign. Louise is looking to do a play called "Fever", with an estimated budget of $10,000. She wants to do a crowdfunding campaign to raise the money for this project, but she is nervous since this is her first fundraising campaign. Louise wants to find out if there are specific factors that make a campaign successful so she can increase her chances of having a successful campaign. This project has the goal of helping Louise launch a successful campaign so her play can be funded.---
The purpose of the project is help Louise plan a successful fundraising campaign. In order to help her, it was necessary to determine if there are specific factors that make a crowdfund campaign successful, so Louise can plan a successful campaign. In order to create a strategy for Louise, current data for similar projects were analyzed so that she can follow the same strategies used by the successfule fundraisers.---
###Analysis and Challenges
Since Louise is fundraising for a play, the data was filtered under the parent category of "Theater" and the subcategor "Plays". The other data for other types of projects were not relevant because in order to give Louise the best information to have a successful campaign, the best strategy was to mirror similar campaigns that were successful. The biggest challenge is that the type of play being produced is unknown for Louise's play. This additional information may help to pin point an even more specific strategy for a successful fundraiser.---
###Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
Based on the data, the best month to launch a campaign is in May and the worst time to launch a campaign is in November. May has the highest amount of successful campaigns, but it also has the highest amount of failed campaigns. This shows that May is a month with high activity so launching a campaign in May would give Louise a strong chance to have a successful campaign.June would also be a good option for launching a campaign, because that month has the highest margin of successful campaigns to failed campaigns.---
###Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
Based on the data, the rate of successful campaigns versus unsuccessful campaigns in the $10,000 range is close. There is a 54% success rate for plays with a budget of $10,000 to $14,999, which is the range for Louise's play budget. The most successful budgets that can cover her goal are between $35,000 and $44,999, so it may be a good strategy to set a higher goal amount, for $35,000, so even if only half of that is raised, she would still have the funding needed for her project. Even if the goal set for the fundraiser is not met, the purpose is to get the project funded, so as long as she gets the $10,000 plus needed to make her play, it will still be a success.---
###Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
The biggest challenge was finding the relevant data for Louise since there were many categories to chose from. Narrowing down the categories to subcategories helped to better identify data that matched the type of project Louise was doing. Looking at other categories such as film or television would not be useful for helping Louise, so narrowing down all the information to just the information that was needed for Louise was the biggest challenge.---
###Results
-•Outcomes Based on Launch Date Conclusions
The first conclusion that can be drawn based on launch date is that the best time to launch a campaign is in May, as that is the most active time for fundraising. The second conclusion that can be drawn is the June is also a good month to start a fundraising campaign. There is slightly less activity that month, but a higher rate of successful campaigns. An additional point that should be noted is that December is a bad month to do any fundraisers because the failed and successful campaigns are the same that month, so that would be the one month to avoid launching a campaign.---
###Outcomes Based on Goals
The biggest takeaway based on examining the outcomes based on goals is that the information is very specific to the range of the goal. There are no patterns regarding certain goal ranges, as some of the lower goals have close successful and failed amounts, while some of the higher goal amounts have similar results.$15,000 to $19,999 have the same failed and successful rates, yet $35,000 to $44,999 have success rates of close to 67%. This would suggest that setting a higher goal, between $35,000 to $44,999, may be the best thing for Loiuse to do to make sure her project is the necessary funding.---
###Limitations of This Dataset
The limitations of this dataset were that it only provided information on category and years. It could be possible that the data could be skewed due to certain categories being more popular during specific periods of time, or there could have been factors that caused certain months to be slower than others, and those factors may no longer exist. The advise given to Louise has to use the current data, without any knowledge about any outside factors that could influence those results.---
###Other Possible Tables and/or Graphs
For this project, pivot tables, line graphs, and bar charts were all used to visualize the data. A box and whisker chart was used. The line graphs and bar charts provided the best visuals to differentiate between the success and failed campaigns. Other visual aids such as pie charts would not provide the clear visuals as the graphs that were used.---
